From the New York Times, I'm Natalie
Kitroof. This is the Daily.
During Trump's second term, one person
has emerged as the most influential
outside adviser to the president. This
morning, a major shakeup at the National
Security Agency,
>> telling Trump who to fire,
>> the director of the National Security
Agency and the Deputy director were
fired
>> and shaping major policy decisions.
>> Because today, the US State Department
is halting medical humanitarian visas
for people from Gaza.
>> The State Department's policy shift
comes after far-right activist Laura
Loomer criticized the three Gazin
children for coming to the US for
medical treatment. Today, my colleague
Ken Beninger on the story of Laura
Loomer.
>> Laura Loomer is a very good patriot. She
is
>> the social media provocator who has
become Trump's favorite blunt
instrument.
>> I guess President Trump just likes me.
>> You have a friendship.
>> Yeah, I would say it's a friendship.
>> It's Thursday, August 21st.
Ken, welcome to the show.
>> Thanks for having me, Natalie.
>> So, tell me, when and how did Laura
Loomer first come onto your radar?
>> Well, I cover media and politics and
have been interested in right-wing
influencers and the way they shape uh
political discourse in the country. So
I've been aware of Laura Loomer as a
figure in that world, you know, going
back to 201617
as a noise maker and troublemaker on
social media, but she disappeared from
my radar for a while when she got
deplatformed and was not on any of these
places. Then she came back and she came
back with a vengeance and this time
around instead of just making noise, she
was making an impact. This is a person
who we've now seen can get people fired
and has done that multiple times this
year since President Trump was
inaugurated. This is someone who now can
actually influence policy and get
different federal agencies to change
their rules and regulations based on
what she wants them to do. And there
seems to be no one who can stop her from
weighing in. And at least one really
important person in the current
administration who's all ears.
>> I think I know who you're hinting at.
>> Yes, it's President Donald Trump.
He is someone who listens to Laura
Loomer, calls her on the phone, invites
her to spend time with him at Mara Lago,
at his golf courses, even in the Oval
Office. Someone who gives her more
credence than pretty much anyone else in
the country, and happens to be very
powerful and willing to take action on
the things that she thinks are
important. And I realized that this
woman had now sort of become one of the
most influential people in the country
who wasn't actually in the White House.
>> And to me, the fact that a regular
citizen without any kind of government
office, without, you know, any special
giant army behind her, that that person
is able to do all this is deeply
intriguing. And it just became a real
riddle. Where did this person come from?
Where do they get all this power? And
what makes her tick?
How do you go about unpacking that
mystery? How do you figure out who this
person is, how she got here, and as you
said, what makes her tick?
>> Well, a lot's been written and said
about Laura Loomer. And I thought that
if I wanted to really get to the bottom
of it, I had to not only meet her, but
spend time with her and really get to
know her as a person to help unravel a
bit the mystery of what this person is
all about. And to do that, I had to get
on the road.
I think we can get ice coffee around
here somewhere. Would you want one?
>> I met her for coffee in Beverly Hills.
>> Well, we're going to be heading out
soon. So, I'm just wondering like if you
want to ask questions.
>> I once went to Panama to spend time with
her.
>> Wow.
>> Here, if we see anyone, just move to the
side a little because I know they want
to get photos and everything.
>> I will move out of you know what I'm
saying.
>> And I roamed the halls of Congress with
her.
>> So, and I I was I wanted to find a place
that had a really big yard because I
like uh rescuing dogs.
>> Yeah. And I also came to her house in
the Gulf Coast of Florida
>> where I got to meet her rescue dogs.
>> Are you feeling bad today?
>> No.
>> I just spent hours and hours with her in
person and many more hours on the
telephone with her and texting with her
to get a sense of who this person really
is.
And what emerged from all that for me
was a portrait of a person with a lot of
scars from her youth. person with very
deep grievances and someone who has
mastered the art of drawing attention to
herself and turned that into her career.
[Music]
>> Tell me where that story begins for her,
that origin story.
[Music]
>> All right, I think everybody's on the
phone.
>> Great. So, I wanted to take this
opportunity to just um be able to go.
>> So, Laura Loomer grew up in Arizona.
She's a child of a doctor and grew up in
what would seem like a pretty normal
middle-class home in Tucson, Arizona.
>> I mean, I grew up in a pretty [__] up
house. That's pretty
>> But she had a a difficult childhood
because in great part her younger
brother was deeply mentally ill from a
very young age.
>> I grew up in a very violent house. I
grew up in a house with mental illness.
I grew up in a house.
>> He told me stories about him threatening
to hurt her or even kill her, of kicking
down her door. And so when you're a kid
and you're, you know, having your hair
pulled or someone's like threatening to
stab you with a knife or hurt you, you
have to defend yourself.
>> When she was uh not even a teenager, her
parents split up and her mother more or
less disappeared from her life for many,
many years.
>> My dad did, I think, did the best that
he could do. But
>> her father faced with the overwhelming
task of raising this difficult brother
and another sibling as well as Laura
ultimately was asked by the state
authorities to to come up with some
solution. And the answer was to send
Laura away to boarding school
>> boarding school because you know yeah it
sucks like the idea of sending your
children away but what's better having
your kids be in a safe environment or
having your children be in a violent
situation because of a brother? So, she
basically says she had to learn to be an
adult at the age of 12.
>> And what about the political dynamics at
home or or for Laura as she's growing
up?
>> Loomer told me stories of watching the
evening news with her dad as a kid, but
other than that said it wasn't a very
political household. And in fact, to
this day, if you ask him, which I have,
about where their politics align, they
don't seem to align a lot. he will
openly say that he disagrees with her on
a number of her political views and
doesn't really know where they come
from. H
>> how do those more extreme views start to
form? If that's not what she's being
raised in, where does it come from?
>> It's a bit of a mystery. She says that
September 11th made a big impression on
her. But she also was 8 years old at the
time. And so it's hard to say what kind
of impact that would have on a person
who was 8, but the first sign of her
political awakening was her feelings
about Islam and about Muslims. And when
she's in high school, she's telling her
classmates, some of whom were Muslim,
that she's beginning to question their
religion and say things that they even
back then found kind of stunning and
offensive. Her parents deny, her father
anyway denies having those feelings, but
they developed. She came up with them
and when she goes off to college, she
continues with her feelings about Islam.
In fact, it becomes a bit of a guiding
light to her. She told me and my
colleague Robert Draper about this in
detail over dinner at a seafood
restaurant in Florida.
>> I don't drink, just the water, please.
>> And kind of a breakthrough moment
happens because of an event the school
held to commemorate 911. And one of the
speakers was a a Muslim imam.
>> And they had invited an imam an imam to
my university to um speak at the 9/11
memorial service. And this imam even
though it's a Catholic school and I'm
Jewish, but I
>> she found this outrageous.
>> It was so disrespectful for him to have
an imam on 911 and I stormed out. I
literally stormed out of the chapel and
I like ripped up the paper.
She writes a Facebook post that says
that she finds that bringing him on was
an insult and a sort of an incitement by
the school and offensive to the victims
of 9/11 and that Islam was about hate
and violence and was calling out the
school for doing it.
>> And I woke up the next morning and my
post was on Breitbart. It was on Sean
Hannity. Pamela Geller had picked it up.
>> This post blows up and goes viral and
gets her national attention. And after
that, she gets invited to a symposium
where lots of people in the right-wing
media sphere and right-wing politics are
present. And at the event, she gets the
chance to meet a guy named James
O'Keeffe, who ran a place called Project
Veritas, a right-wing gotchaoriented
journalism outfit. And she runs him
down. She says, "You don't know who I
am, but you should because I'm going to
make a big difference and I'm going to
be really important."
>> And he kind of laughs it off, but has
her number. And a few months later, he
gives her a call and invites her to come
up to New York and sort of prove what
she can do.
And so she flies up there, grabs a
hidden camera that was supplied to her
by James O'Keefe, and she ends up
meeting the daughter of Eric Garner.
Now, Eric Garner was this person who
died in a chokeold from the New York
City police,
>> right? And uh Loomer gets Eric Garner's
daughter to make disparaging comments
about Alice Sharpton, the prominent
preacher and activist for the black
community. Project Veritoss loves this,
shops it, and gets the New York Post to
pick it up and puts it on the front page
of the New York Post. So Laura Loomer,
college senior, not even graduated yet,
has now gone completely viral.
Yeah. I mean, it does seem like this
kind of knack, maybe even instinct for
attention seeking and viral moments. She
has it, you know, even in her college
years.
>> Yeah. I mean, she has a real gut for it.
You know, she's studying broadcast
journalism. She imagines herself one day
being sort of an on air talent for Fox
News or something, but she really has a
gut for the gotcha moment and for
catching people on tape. And when the
opportunity strikes, she always seems to
go for it. Um, and it's around that same
time, soon after she graduates from
college, that Donald Trump goes down the
golden escalator in the Trump Tower and
announces his candidacy for president.
>> And and what does she tell you about
that moment about Trump's kind of
entrance onto the political scene?
>> So, as she tells it, she's in for Trump
to be president from the beginning.
She's not interested in the other people
who were running at the time, like Jeb
Bush. She said that she liked the way
that he spoke, the way that he said what
was on his mind, and she says that she
liked his values, what she would now
call America first values in a way that
she didn't think the other candidates
were.
>> So Trump obviously wins in 2016. What's
her relationship to him then?
>> She doesn't have any kind of
relationship with him at that period.
She doesn't know him at all. So instead,
at that time, she's working hard on the
kind of work she does, which is
undercover journalism, catching people
saying things on video they shouldn't
say, and blasting it out as loud as
possible. She's developing a huge
following on social media. And less than
two years out of college, she's now
famous and also infamous at the same
time because part and parcel of all this
is being outrageous and saying things
that most people won't say.
One particular target of hers is Ilhan
Omar, the Somali immigrant congresswoman
from Minnesota.
>> Ilhan, why did you marry your brother?
Why did you commit immigration fraud?
You know, that's a crime here in the
United States. Why do you hate Jewish
people so much?
>> She's been after her for years and has
alleged that she married her own brother
and violated immigration rules, none of
which is true.
>> I would say her entire loyalty and her
entire focus is to Islam. and that scene
and the way that
>> she once f really in a very ghouish
moment celebrated the death of 2,000
Syrian migrants who drowned in the
Mediterranean trying to flee the war
there and 2017 said that was great and
there should be 2,000 more.
>> Wo,
>> there's kind of no bottom to the pretty
despicable nasty things she's willing to
say at least in a public forum.
>> March against Sharia. She has even
called herself a hashtag proud
Islamophobe.
>> There's no question as an Islamic
feminist
>> and that kind of stuff starts getting
her into trouble.
>> Well, how do you get banned from Uber?
How do you get banned from Lyft? How do
you get banned from Uber Eats? Just by
being and existing as a conservative in
this country.
>> She in 2017 gets kicked off of Uber and
Lift because she made comments about
them having Islamic drivers and her not
wanting to ride in a car with a Muslim.
And uh the following year she gets
kicked off Twitter because she has been
abusive particularly towards um Ilhan
Omar the congresswoman just going after
her relentlessly on the platform. So she
gets kicked off that site.
>> I have been defamed. Okay. My life has
been destroyed. My life
>> and pretty soon it cascades and she's
getting kicked off almost every social
media platform.
>> I literally can't make a living anymore
even though I have a degree. I was about
to
>> and that's an interesting thing because
it becomes an effective muzzle to her in
a lot of ways.
>> Yeah. Being deplatformed for this
person, it it does undermine her
livelihood at this point, right? I mean,
her professional success depends on her
being able to spread her message.
>> That's right. And if you read her book,
which I have, you will hear in her words
that this is one of the most scarring
and painful events of her entire life.
Getting kicked off the platforms affects
her in a way that I don't think it would
affect most people. and she's desperate
to find a way to get her voice back and
trying to figure out some other way to
be relevant now that she can't speak to
millions of people on social media.
[Music]
>> So what does she do? So, she runs for
Congress. Obviously,
>> clearly
>> in 2020, she runs for Congress and
though she wins the Republican primary,
she loses in the general election and
she runs again in 2022. And in that
case, she loses in the primary. So, that
second run fizzles out as well.
>> You know, it strikes me that around that
time, Trump had also been experiencing
some of this. He had also just lost an
election. He was deplatformed from
social media in the aftermath of January
6th. Their trajectories are kind of
aligning.
>> Yeah, it's a really good point. She's
off Twitter now. He's off Twitter. Her
voice can't be heard and his voice can't
be heard in the same way. And they're
suddenly sort of out in the wilderness
in a sense together. And then for both
of them, a life raft comes to them in
the form of Elon Musk of all people.
Elon Musk buys Twitter in the fall of
2022. And one of the very first things
he does is reinstate Donald Trump's
account and also importantly for this
story, Laura Loomer's account, she gets
reactivated in December 2022 and
immediately pivots to her next big plan,
which is to get Donald Trump reelected
and back in the White House.
>> And what does that look like, that plan,
going allin on getting Trump reelected?
>> Well, it starts with focusing on the
governor of Florida, Ronda Santis. And
while lots of people on the right were
embracing Dantis and excited about him,
Laura Loomer saw him as an obstacle and
decided to focus essentially all of her
energies on making it as hard for him as
possible to win the Republican
nomination. And right into the beginning
of 2023, before he's even declared that
he's going to run for president, she
stages a protest outside of a book
signing event that he's hosting at a
bookstore in Florida.
>> We're simply supporting President Trump.
She's wearing Trump gear, carrying Trump
flags, and then while the cameras are
rolling, uh, something happens.
>> People are in there saying, "Have me
come out to tell you guys not to be
here." Why he's here.
>> I thought that Governor Dantis was uh
like he always talks about how he's in
favor of free speech. Like, we have a
first amendment right to be here to
rally in support of president.
>> Security hired by Ronda Santis goes out
and tells her that she has to leave.
>> I need you guys to leave, please.
Okay,
>> we don't want the Sanders to run for
president.
>> Okay, that's fine.
>> And that turns out to be a viral moment.
Uh Laura Loomer puts that out
everywhere.
>> Yeah. I mean, what a bad political move
by the Dantis camp, right? Like that
just plays right into Laura Loomer's
hands. This is her playbook and he's
just following it basically.
>> I mean, total red meat for Laura Loomer.
She jumps on it, makes a slice of bologn
into a giant ham sandwich, and goes
crazy with it. And she also catches the
attention of the one person she's most
interested in seeing this, which is
Donald Trump himself.
>> And all of a sudden, I get an unknown
phone call. And I'm like, "Oh, God, I
don't like taking it, but something told
me to take it, right? I don't know what
did, but I just had this telemarketer."
>> Yeah.
>> The same night. Same night.
>> Same day, like hours, like 3 hours after
Ronda Santis had just called the cops on
me. She loves to tell this story that
her phone rings and it's an unlisted
number.
>> Um, I answer it and it's like, "Hello."
I was like, "Who's this?" Right? I was
very annoyed. It's like, "Hello, Laura.
It's your favorite president, Donald
Trump." And I thought it was a prank
call. And I was like, I was like, "No,
really, honestly, who is this? Don't
waste my time."
>> And she doesn't believe it's him at
first, but it is. And he convinces her,
but it's Donald Trump.
>> I just love what you did today that the
sanctimonious. And it was really
honestly President Trump.
And I just couldn't believe it. And we
had a phone call for like 15 minutes and
he was telling me how much he loved me
and he thought I was amazing. And he was
>> and she cannot believe this is happening
to her. This is the culmination of all
this work and dreaming she's had that
Donald Trump is calling her. And to make
it even better, he says to her he wants
her to come to Mara Lago and meet him in
person.
>> Wow.
>> And that is major, huge for Laura
Loomer. And she could not be more
excited. She gets her nails done. She
gets her hairs done. She buys a new
outfit and she goes to Mara Lago and is
ushered into his office. And there he is
with Susie Wilds who was going to be
running his campaign.
>> And I was so nervous. I I sat into I sat
in his office and
we started talking and it was just
supposed to be like a thank you, you
know, like, oh, Laura Lum is your
biggest fan. You can meet her.
And I gave him a signed copy of my book
and I said, "Mr. President, you're my
hero.
So they're there together in Mara Lago
and Trump asks her what she's seeing in
the political space and
>> we started talking and he started asking
him opinions about people and I was just
rattling off opposition research. That
person sucks. This person sucks. This
person
>> and she launches into lots of attacks on
lots of Republicans that she says aren't
really loyal to the MAGA movement, that
aren't loyal to Trump, that she thinks
are not worthy of his attention.
>> He's just staring at me. He goes, goes,
"Wow,
>> you really know what you're talking
about."
>> She's making a huge impression on Trump.
You know, this is her opportunity and
she's not going to squander it. And it
clearly works because towards the end of
the meeting, Trump tells her she should
run for Congress again.
>> So, we said, "Susie, let's find a
district for her." And I just looked at
the president. I said, "You know, Mr.
President, I don't want to run for
Congress. I want you to win." I said,
"There's no point of anyone being in
Congress if you're not the president."
And so, he loved what I said. I said, "I
want to put you first."
and she says, "I don't want to run for
Congress. The only thing I want to do is
to make sure you get elected."
>> Well, of course, that kind of public
open show of loyalty is exactly what
Trump wants to hear. And he loves it and
it has a big smile on his face and says,
"Susie, we should hire this woman."
>> Susie said that she was going to get me
set up with paperwork and whatever.
>> And she wanted me to come down to the
campaign headquarter office to meet with
her.
And so this begins the application
process for a job within the Trump
campaign. And Bloomer is expecting to
start, I think, on April 1st or
somewhere around that 2023 for the
campaign. She submits her tax forms. She
does all the things you need to begin
that job. And she's thinking she's going
to be probably working on comms,
communications for the campaign, and
that her political career and her dream
of working for Donald Trump is about to
take off. And what happens?
>> The job never materializes. It never
happens. She learns, in fact, from a
story in this newspaper that after
discussions inside the campaign about
hiring her, there's been a decision not
to hire her. And
>> nobody called me. I never got a phone
call from anybody on the campaign
telling me after that, by the way, you
know, we're really sorry about this. Or
never got a phone call saying, hey,
>> she is absolutely devastated. Well, like
I said, it's always been about
temperament. So, I was upset.
>> I was so depressed. I cried so much.
I locked myself in my my apartment for
like a month. And I lost like
15 lbs. I was so depressed. I didn't I
was crying every day. I was so upset.
>> And do we know why?
Well, we have reporting that people
inside the campaign were quite worried
about hiring Laura Loomer, didn't think
it would be an asset to the campaign to
have her there. Fears that she was too
loose of a cannon, that she was too hard
to manage, and that she could be a
liability to the campaign. And even
though Donald Trump had asked for it,
there was just such strong pressure not
to that those in power beneath Trump
made sure it didn't occur.
And if you follow her social media or
you talk to her, she brings this up more
than almost any other topic. This almost
getting hired and then not getting hired
is another foundational moment in her
life and one she's very upset of. And
and so she takes the feelings of this
rejection and channels them through her
grievance into a new and arguably more
important mission to rid his campaign
and his administration of anyone she
considers an enemy.
There's there's something about
rejection that motivates you to become
even more efficient.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
So, tell me about this new mission that
Loomer pours herself into after she's
turned away by team Trump. So the thing
that Loomer starts to think about is
that the enemies are everywhere and that
the campaign and the incoming
administration and the entire Republican
party is riddled with people who are not
sufficiently loyal to Trump. And so her
project develops as what she calls
vetting or sometimes she calls it
extreme vetting, which is finding people
who don't love Trump the way she does,
who don't love MAGA the way she does,
and to publicly out them and hopefully
she frequently says to end their
careers. I really enjoy and I take great
pleasure in humiliating people who suck
at their job. I do, especially when
people steal opportunities from me. I
really like rubbing it in their face by
showing them that I can do a job way
better than they can.
>> So, uh, she walked me through her
process actually in a conversation we
had about this. She looks for names for
people on the list of people who are
being appointed or nominated or
considered for nomination or in the
party or have jobs in packs and
fundraising committees and things like
that and then she begins to pick them
apart.
>> If there's like a judge that rules
against Trump, I start looking into the
judge name. I Google his name and then I
start looking up the their LinkedIn,
their resume, like looking up, you know,
their mortgage. That's your normal
process. Yeah. looking up
>> and look for anything she can find on
the internet, on public filings, on
campaign contributions, anything she can
find that suggests to her that they
might not be 100% in line with what her
vision of MAGA is.
>> I mean, I go through finances, I go
through like marital relationships,
spouses, kids.
>> She told me that if she can't find
anything in the first past, then she
looks at their spouse. And if she can't
find anything in the spouse, she looks
at their children. And if she can't find
anything in their children, she looks
for their siblings. She can't find
anything in their siblings, she looks
for their parents. She looks for any
link in the family that might not be
sufficiently MAGA for her criteria and
she weaponizes that.
>> It just happens to be the case that
there's always a conflict like
especially with the spouses gets every
time.
>> And so if she finds out that someone's
uncle, you know, was a democratic
councilman from some city or their
grandfather owned a business in another
country, she will bring that forward as
evidence that that person shouldn't be
there, is dangerous, and is a threat to
the administration. Can you just give me
some examples of of her targets?
>> Yeah. Well, perhaps one of the most
prominent ones is a group of people who
worked for in the National Security
Council who she unmasked tried to get
fired in early April and was fairly
successful. You know, I was I was doing
all my own vetting at this time and then
Signal Gate happened like right after
>> she got interested in these people
because of what we now call Signal Gate,
which was this incident in which Mike
Waltz, the national security adviser,
created a group chat with all kinds of
people in it to discuss plans to attack
Houthi rebels in Yemen. And
accidentally, a journalist was admitted
in the chat who got to observe this
happening. M
>> and Laura Lmer noticed that one of the
people in the chat was a guy named Alex
Wong who was a deputy to Mike Waltz, the
national security adviser.
>> And I started doing my own deep dive on
Alex Wong and his wife and
>> and she discovered that he worked on the
2012 campaign of Mitt Romney, the
Republican nominee for president and a
fierce critic of Donald Trump. Then she
discovered that Wong's wife worked in
the Justice Department under Joe Biden.
because I said, "Wait, so how does
somebody become the deputy uh national
security adviser and their wife was
involved in prosecuting Jixers?"
>> It was very shocking stuff
>> that was to her mind a red flag even
though of course the woman worked
previously in the first Trump Justice
Department. So she starts going on X
like crazy and saying that Alex Wong is
unfit for office, shouldn't have a job,
he's a threat, he might even be deep
state or some kind of subversive
element. And then
>> I got a phone call from the White House
and it was President Trump.
>> Donald Trump gets wind of this
>> and he goes, "Wow, so uh I have your
report here on Wong and and uh tell me
about this report." and he's asking me
about my report and I'm telling him and
he said, "Oh, I I want you to come to
the White House and uh I want you to uh
let me know who else is problematic." I
mean, those aren't the exact words that
he used, right? But that was the
sentiment, right? Obviously, I don't
>> and invites her to come to the White
House.
It's her first ever Oval Office visit,
first ever White House visit, and she
walks in with a sheath of papers about
12 different people that she thinks
should be fired, including Alex Wong.
>> And what does Trump do? What does he
say?
>> So, he listens to this presentation and
it's a pretty incredible scene.
>> I brought my list and presented it. And
then Michael Waltz was freaking out when
he found out I was there and he stormed
into the OAL office while I was there.
And in the middle of this conversation,
Mike Waltz himself walks into the office
and has to listen to Laura Loomer um
bismerch him and the people who work for
him. And according to various accounts,
including Laura Loomers, but others as
well,
>> the president said he wanted all of the
people fired. And Michael
>> Trump ends the meeting by saying, "We
have to get rid of these people. We have
to fire these people." And indeed,
within hours, Trump has fired six of the
12 people that she put on a list in
front of him.
Wow. So, basically Trump sides with
Loomer over Waltz, his own national
security adviser.
>> Yeah, that's right. And it's worth
noting that Wong never did lose his job,
but Mike Waltz did. He was pushed out of
the National Security Adviser job and
sent over to be the ambassador to the
United Nations.
>> Okay, that's her first big success. And
I do remember it. It made a lot of
waves. What else does she do? How does
this progress?
>> Well, she realizes she's hit on
something big and she goes on what could
more or less be thought of as a rampage,
trying everything she can to get more
people fired and finding success doing
it. She calls them scalps and she's
racking up one after the other
throughout the spring and into the
summer.
>> Michael Waltz, General Hog, also Hunter
Biden, like I got his Secret Service
detail completely revoked. So, that's
great. She gets Hunter Biden's Secret
Service detail taken away from him.
>> The surgeon general, Janette Newwat, so
that's great, too.
>> She gets people who are going to be
nominated to be important jobs like the
surgeon general gets their nomination
pulled. She gets a assistant US attorney
in Los Angeles fired. times. Like some
of the betting I do, while all of it is
always intended to support the
president, I do go out of my way a lot
of the time to highlight very specific
cases of actual incompetence when I know
people don't have those jobs because
they deserve those jobs and they're not
doing a good job.
>> And it's an incredible run and one that
sends terror throughout the entire
Republican party.
And just to gut check us for a minute,
obviously it's in Lumer's interest to
claim what she calls scalps, but how can
we be sure that she's behind it?
>> It's a good question. The administration
has generally stopped short of saying
Laura Loomer got this person fired. They
haven't disabused people of the idea
either, but she's claimed it. And
certainly the fact that she is going
there in person saying this stuff and
seeing results almost instantly is a
very strong indication that if she's not
the only factor, she's a big factor.
We've seen several instances where she
out of the blue has posted about someone
being nominated for a job or in a job
that she thinks they shouldn't have and
within 12 hours or even less sometimes
that person is gone.
>> And she discovers pretty quickly that
she can weigh in not just on who gets
hired or fired, but what the government
decides to do. And one of the things she
starts getting into is policy. And one
example of that happened recently. She
learned that a charity was uh bringing
in children from Gaza who had been
injured in the conflict there and was
bringing them to the US for important,
often life-changing surgeries. These are
often kids who had legs blown off and
arms blown off. Some of them were
emaciated. And Loomer went online and
said that this was importing terrorists
and it must stop. And after a day of
posting about this online, she picked up
the phone and called Marco Rubio, the
Secretary of State, and told him that he
needed to pay attention to this. Well,
the next morning, Marco Rubio announced
that he was pausing all visas from
Palestine for further review and was
checking for ties to terrorist
organizations for this charity. I mean,
it's just remarkable when you think of
how many foreign leaders in this world
would love to be able to pick up the
phone and get Marco Rubio's ear right
now.
>> Yeah, it's truly it's incredible. I
mean, the access she has is amazing. And
I think it's an interesting thing to
contrast with the fact that if you ask
her, she still thinks that she doesn't
have the access she deserves and still
uh is fostered by resentment because she
didn't get invited to go to the summit
in Alaska the way that another
right-wing influencer did. I was texting
with her recently and she complained
that it's so unfair and no one respects
her.
>> It's really hard to get rid of a a chip
on your shoulder. Um, I have to ask, we
know Trump is loving it. How's the rest
of Washington reacting to her outsiz
role?
>> I think the word you would probably
associate with how most Republicans feel
when they see Laura Loomer is abject
terror. When I spent time with her in
the halls of Congress on Capitol Hill,
whenever a Republican congressman would
see Loomer, their eyes would get big and
it looked like they have trying to
battle with their fightor-flight
reflexes. They didn't know whether to
get away from her or to come up to her.
And ultimately, what most of them choose
to do is go up to her uh in a very
guarded and careful way. And I think
their fear of her is quite palpable and
frankly understandable given the
influence she has.
You know, we've seen the Trump
administration empower many influencers,
not just Laura Loomer, people in
non-traditional media, you know,
bringing those folks into the White
House press briefing room. They've kind
of fed that beast in many ways, and it's
worked well for them a lot of the time.
But there have been these moments at
which those influencers have kind of
turned against them. Epstein being the
starkkest, most recent example of that.
And I wonder whether you think there's a
world where embracing people like Loomer
who are willing to cross all of these
lines might come back to bite the White
House.
>> There are a lot of people in the
administration who think of her as a
ticking time bomb, as something that is
extremely dangerous and should be kept
as far away as possible. So the other
day there was a hit piece about me. They
obviously talked to some people at the
White House and it said um Trump's staff
are getting tired of Laura Loomer.
>> Yeah.
>> And literally the next day I'm at the
White House facing with Jamie Vance.
Right. So this article was
>> but grouping her in the same bucket as
other influencers or other social media
trolls or anything like that was kind of
a mistake because she isn't like them.
She doesn't go to their parties. She
doesn't live in a mansion. She lives in
a little rental house in the Gulf Coast
of Florida and she spends all day on the
phone trying to find dirt on people and
trying to make noise.
>> Why would I give a [__] about what they
think about me when I play for an
audience of one?
>> She has a singular mission that is truly
I think unique in this sphere and it
sets her apart and it is the mission
that motivates her and keeps her going
every day and it is the thing that makes
people wake up in the middle of the
night with a cold sweat. And just to be
clear, that mission is defending Trump
at all costs.
>> That's it. That's the one goal she has
in mind. And it is all she knows how to
do. And I don't think she's capable of
imagining anything else that she'd want
to do. Nor is there anything she would
really trade it for. I think at this
point,
>> at the end of the day, the only person
that really matters is Donald Trump.
Yeah,
>> she is his perfect blunt instrument that
can do the jobs that no one else will
get done. In exchange, what she gets out
of this is the approval and acceptance
of Donald J. Trump,
[Music]
>> Ken, thank you so much.
>> Thank you, Natalie.
We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know today.
On Wednesday, Israel approved new
settlements in the West Bank,
fragmenting land that had been
envisioned as part of a Palestinian
state. Under the plan, 3,400 additional
housing units would be built in one of
the most sensitive areas of the West
Bank near Jerusalem.
At the same time, the Israeli military
moved ahead with plans to take over Gaza
City, saying its troops had advanced to
the city's outskirts.
Tents were being moved into southern
Gaza for people who would be displaced
from their homes. Together, the moves
raised questions about whether a new
ceasefire proposal for the war in Gaza
had any chance of moving forward.
And on Wednesday, after weeks of
partisan fighting, the Texas House
passed a new congressional map that
delivered President Trump the
gerrymandering he'd asked for. The goal
was to clinch five new Republican seats
in the House next year. The state senate
is expected to vote on the map as soon
as Thursday evening. and would then send
it to Governor Greg Abbott for his
promised signature.
[Music]
Today's episode was produced by Rob
Zipco, Caitlyn O'Keefe, and AA Churvedy.
It was edited by Rachel Quester and was
engineered by Chris Wood.
Special thanks to Ashley Callaway Blana
Green.
[Music]
That's it for the daily. I'm Natalie
Kitroof. See you tomorrow.
[Music]